s145_10.0.0
===========

This version is a major release, adding support for new nRF54L series devices
and reducing RAM and NVM requirements.

Notes:

- This release has changed the API. This requires changes to applications.
- The release notes list changes since s145_9.0.0.


SoftDevice properties
---------------------

* This SoftDevice variant is compatible with
  nRF54LM20.

* The SoftDevice memory requirements for this version are as follows:

  * NVM: **137.0 kB** (0x22400 bytes).

  * RAM: **5.1 kB** (0x1480 bytes).
    This is the minimum required memory. The actual requirements depend on the
    configuration chosen at ``sd_ble_enable()`` time.

  * Call stack: The SoftDevice uses a call stack combined with the application.
    The worst-case stack usage for the SoftDevice is
    **1.8 kB**
    (0x700 bytes). Application writers should ensure
    that enough stack space is reserved to cover the worst-case SoftDevice call
    stack usage combined with the worst-case application call stack usage.

* SoftDevice base address:

  * nRF54LM20: 0x1da800 (``s145_nrf54lm20_10.0.0_softdevice.hex``).

* The Firmware ID of this SoftDevice is 0x30AC.

This version of the SoftDevice includes the SoftDevice Controller and Multiprotocol Service Layer (MPSL) libraries from nRF Connect SDK v3.3.0.
See the changelog of the `SoftDevice Controller <https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-3.3.0/page/nrfxlib/softdevice_controller/CHANGELOG.html#nrf_connect_sdk_v330>`__
and `MPSL <https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-3.3.0/page/nrfxlib/mpsl/CHANGELOG.html#nrf_connect_sdk_v330>`__ for more details about changes in these components.


Changes
-------

* SoftDevice

  * Optimized RAM consumption for simple configurations of the SoftDevice. (DRGN-26915)

  * The event ``NRF_EVT_RADIO_CANCELED`` was never generated and has been removed. (DRGN-27894)

* GAP

  * ``ble_gap_evt_scan_req_report_t`` now includes the Received Signal Strength Indication
    of the received scan request. (DRGN-27726)

Bug Fixes
---------

* GAP

  * Fixed an issue where the SoftDevice did not provide LTK to application.
    That happened if LESC bonding was run without IRK distribution at least in one direction. (DRGN-27912)

Limitations
-----------

* SoftDevice

  * If Radio Notifications are enabled, flash write and flash erase operations
    initiated through the SoftDevice API will be notified to the application as
    Radio Events (DRGN-5197).

  * Synthesized low frequency clock source is not tested or intended for use
    with the Bluetooth LE stack.

  * Applications must not modify the SEVONPEND flag in the SCR register when
    running in priority levels higher than 6 (priority level numerical values
    lower than 6) as this can lead to undefined behavior.

  * The SoftDevice may generate several events when connected, based on peer
    actions, meaning without previous action from the application. The
    ``BLE_GAP_EVT_PHY_UPDATE_REQUEST`` event, for instance, is generated when a
    connected peer sends a Phy Update Request, even when an application does not
    include logic to change PHY. There are several such events that may require
    action from an application if they are received. For more information, see the
    ``sd_ble_enable()`` API in SoftDevice.

  * Configuring multiple connection configurations (see ``ble_conn_cfg_t::conn_cfg_tag``) is not supported (DRGN-23839).

* GATT

  * To conform to the Bluetooth Core Specification, there shall be no
    secondary service that is not referenced somehow by a primary service. The
    SoftDevice does not enforce this (DRGN-906).

Known Issues
------------

* LL

  * If the application adds an all zeroes IRK with the
    ``sd_ble_gap_device_identities_set()``, it will be treated as a valid entry
    in the device identity list. An all zeroes IRK is invalid and must not be
    added (DRGN-9083).
